#### 8.2 Exercise

1. **State whether each of the following is a vector quantity or a scalar quantity.**
    
    1. Distance
        Scalar
    2. Displacement
        Vector
    3. Speed
        Scalar
    4. Velocity
        Vector
    5. Acceleration
        Vector
2. **The speed limit on Melbourne’s suburban freeways is 100 km h−1. Express this speed in m s−1.**
    27.78 m s-1
3. **If Emma McKeon’s average speed while swimming a 100-metre freestyle race is about 1.5 m s−1, calculate what her average speed would be in km h−1.**
    5.4 km/h
4. **The speed limit on US freeways is 55 miles per hour. One mile is approximately 1.6 km. Express this speed in each of the following measures:**
    
    1. km h−1
        88 km h-1
    2. m s−1.
        24.4 m s-1
5. **A jogger heads due north from his home and runs 400 metres along a straight footpath before realising he has forgotten his sunscreen and runs straight back to get it.**
    
    1. What distance has the jogger travelled by the time he gets back home?
        
    2. What was the displacement of the jogger when he started to run back home?
        
    3. What was the jogger's displacement when he arrived back home to pick up the sunscreen?
        
6. The world records for some women’s track events (as at early 2022) are listed in the following table.
    
    World records for women’s track events
    |**Athlete**|**Event**|**Time**|
    |---|---|---|
    |Florence Griffith Joyner (USA)|100 m|10.49 s|
    |Florence Griffith Joyner (USA)|200 m|21.34 s|
    |Marita Koch (German Democratic Republic)|400 m|47.60 s|
    |Jarmilia Kratochvilova (Czechoslovakia)|800 m|1 min 53.28 s|
    |Genzebe Dibaba (Ethiopia)|1500 m|3 min 50.07 s|
    |Wang Junxia (China)|3000 m|8 min 06.11 s|
    |Letesenbet Gidey (Ethiopia)|5000 m|14 min 06.62 s|
    |Letesenbet Gidey (Ethiopia)|10 000 m|29 min 01.03 s|
    
    1. Calculate the average speed (to three significant figures) of each of the athletes listed in the table.
        
    2. Why is there so little difference between the average speeds of the world-record holders of the 100-metre and 200-metre events despite the doubling of the distance?
        
    3. How long would it take Genzebe Dibaba to complete the marathon if she could maintain her average speed during the 1500-metre event for the entire 42.2 km course? (The world record for the women’s marathon, set on 13 October 2019, is 2 h 15 min 4 s.)
        
    4. Which of the athletes in the table has an average speed that is the same as the magnitude of her average velocity? Explain.
        
7. 1. A jogger takes 30 minutes to cover a distance of 5 km. What is the jogger’s average speed in:
        
        1. km h−1
            
        2. m s−1?
            
    2. How long does it take for a car travelling at 60 km h−1 to cover a distance of 200 metres?
        
    
8. In 2020, cyclist Chloé Dygert, of the USA, set a world record of 3 min, 16.037 s for the 3000-metre pursuit.
    
    1. What was her average speed?
        
    2. How long would it take her to cycle from Melbourne to Bendigo, a distance of 151 km, if she could maintain her 3000-metre pursuit average speed for the whole distance?
        
    3. How long does it take a car to travel from Melbourne to Bendigo if its average speed is 80 km h−1?
        
    4. A car travels from Melbourne to Bendigo and back to Melbourne in 4 hours.
        
        1. What is the car's average speed?
            
        2. What is the car's average velocity?
            
9. Once upon a time, a giant tortoise had a bet with a hare that she could beat him in a foot race over a distance of 1 kilometre. The giant tortoise can reach a speed of about 7.5 cm s−1. The hare can run as fast as 20 m s−1. Both animals ran at their maximum speeds during the race. However, the hare was a rather arrogant creature and decided to have a little nap along the way. How long did the hare sleep if the result was a tie?
    
10. A Year 11 student arrives at school late and runs from the front gate of the school to the Physics laboratory. He runs the first 120 metres at an average speed of 6 m s−1, the next 120 metres at an average speed of 4 m s−1 and the final 120 metres at an average speed of 2 m s−1. What was the student’s average speed during his attempt to arrive at his class on time?
    
11. While on holiday, a Physics teacher drives her old Volkswagen from Melbourne to Wodonga, a distance of 300 kilometres. Her average speed was 80 km h−1. She trades in her old Volkswagen and purchases a brand-new Toyota Prius. She proudly drives her new car back home to Melbourne at an average speed of 100 km h−1. Calculate the average speed for the entire journey.
    
12. For each of the following scenarios, calculate:
    
    1. the change in speed
        
    2. the change in velocity.
        
    
    3. The driver of a car heading north along a freeway at 100 km h−1 slows down to 60 km h−1 as the traffic gets heavier.
        
    4. A fielder catches a cricket ball travelling towards him at 20 m s−1.
        
    5. A tennis ball travelling at 25 m s−1 is returned directly back to the server at a speed of 30 m s−1.
        
13. A car travelling east at a speed of 10 m s−1 turns right to head south at the same speed. Has the car undergone an acceleration? Explain your answer with the aid of a diagram.
    
14. Estimate the acceleration of a car, in m s−2, as it resumes its journey through the suburbs after stopping at traffic lights.
    
15. Use the data in the table in question 6 to help you estimate the average acceleration of a world-class 100-metre sprinter at the beginning of a race.
    

#### 8.2 Exam questions

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4346)Question 1 (1 mark)**

MC Consider the following four scenarios for the motion of an object:

P. Velocity is positive and acceleration is positive.

Q. Velocity is positive and acceleration is negative.

R. Velocity is negative and acceleration is positive.

S. Velocity is negative and acceleration is negative.

Which of the following best describes the two scenarios in which the speed of the object is decreasing?

1. P and Q
    
2. Q and R
    
3. P and R
    
4. P and S
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4347)Question 2 (2 marks)**

An object moving in a straight line has an initial displacement of +12 m followed by one of −20 m. The time interval is 4.0 s.

Calculate the average velocity.

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4348)Question 3 (2 marks)**

An object travels at a constant velocity of 20 m s−1 north-west for 2.0 minutes.

Calculate the displacement.

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4349)Question 4 (2 marks)**

A car, moving in a straight line at 10 m s−1, slows down and comes to rest in a time of 5.0 s.

Calculate the average acceleration of the car.

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4350)Question 5 (2 marks)**

A car is moving around a circular track at a constant speed.

Is the car accelerating or not? Explain your answer.