#### **8.4 Exercise**

1. **How long does it take for:**
    
    1. **a car to accelerate on a straight road at a constant 6 m s−2 from an initial speed of 60 km h−1 (17 m s−1) to a final speed of 100 km h−1 (28 m s−1)**
        6.67 seconds
    2. **a downhill skier to accelerate from rest at a constant 2 m s−2 to a speed of 10 m s−1?**
        5 seconds
2. **In Acapulco, on the coast of Mexico, professional high divers plunge from a height of 36 metres above the water. (The highest diving boards used in Olympic diving events are 10 metres above the water.) Assuming that throughout their dive, the divers are falling vertically from rest with an acceleration of 10 m s−2, estimate:**
    
    1. **the length of the time interval during which the divers fall through the air**
        T = 2.68
    2. **the speed with which the divers enter the water.**
        V = 2.68 m s-2 down
3. **A skateboarder travelling down a hill notices the busy road ahead and comes to a stop in 2.0 seconds over a distance of 12 metres. Assume a constant negative acceleration.**
    
    1. **What was the initial speed of the skateboarder?**
        12 m/s
    2. **What was the acceleration of the skateboarder as they came to a stop?**
        A = -6m s-2
4. **A car is travelling at a speed of 100 km h−1 when the driver sees a large fallen tree branch in front of her. At the instant that she sees the branch, it is 50 metres from the front of her car. The car travels a distance of 48 metres _after_ the brakes are applied before coming to a stop.**
    
    1. **What is the average acceleration of the car while the car is braking?**
        
    2. **How long does the car take to stop once the brakes are applied?**
        
    3. **What other information do you need in order to determine whether the car stops before it hits the branch? Make an estimate of the missing item of information to predict whether or not the car is able to stop in time.**
        
5. **A dancer in a school musical is asked to leap 80 centimetres into the air, taking off vertically on one beat of the music and landing with the next beat. If the music beats every 0.5 seconds, is the leap possible? The acceleration of the dancer during the leap can be assumed to be 10 m s−2 downwards.**
    
6. **A brand-new Rolls Royce rolls off the back of a truck as it is being delivered to its owner. The truck is travelling along a straight road at a constant speed of 60 km h−1. The Rolls Royce slows down at a constant rate, coming to a stop over a distance of 240 metres. It is a full minute before the truck driver realises that the precious load is missing. The driver brakes immediately, leaving a 25-metre skid mark on the road. The driver’s reaction time (the time interval between noticing the problem and depressing the brake) is 0.5 seconds. How far behind is the Rolls Royce when the truck stops?**
    
7. **A girl at the bottom of a 100-metre high cliff throws a tennis ball vertically upwards. At the same instant, a boy at the very top of the cliff drops a golf ball so that it hits the tennis ball while both balls are still in the air. The acceleration of both balls can be assumed to be 10 m s−2 downwards.**
    
    1. **With what speed is the tennis ball thrown so that the golf ball strikes it at the top of its path?**
        
    2. **What is the position of the tennis ball when the golf ball strikes it?**
        

#### **8.4 Exam questions**

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4356)Question 1 (1 mark)**

**MC An object, initially moving at 4.0 m s−1, accelerates at 3.0 m s−2 for a time interval of 2.0 s.**

**What is the displacement?**

1. **6 m**
    
2. **12 m**
    
3. **14 m**
    
4. **20 m**
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4357)Question 2 (1 mark)**

**MC An object, initially moving at 3.0 m s−1, accelerates at 4.0 m s−2 for a time interval of 5.0 s.**

**What is the final speed?**

1. **23 m s–1**
    
2. **20 m s–1**
    
3. **17 m s–1**
    
4. **13 m s–1**
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4358)Question 3 (2 marks)**

**A car is moving at 20 m s−1 in a straight line. It then brakes smoothly to a stop in a displacement of 40 m.**

**Calculate the acceleration of the car.**

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4359)Question 4 (3 marks)**

**A small ball is projected vertically upward with an unspecified initial velocity. The acceleration of the ball is 9.8 m s−2 vertically downward. The ball reaches its highest point after 2.0 s.**

**Calculate the maximum height reached. Show your working. (_Hint_: This can be found using just one equation.)**

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4360)Question 5 (9 marks)**

**An object has an initial velocity of 6.0 m s−1. It then accelerates at a constant rate for 4.0 s, reaching a final velocity of 14 m s−1.**

1. **What is the magnitude of the acceleration? **(1 mark)****
    
2. **What is the displacement? **(2 marks)****
    
3. **What is the average velocity? **(1 mark)****
    
4. **While travelling at 14 m s−1 the object is then subjected to a constant braking effect that brings it to rest in a distance of 24.5 m.**
    
    **What is the acceleration while braking? **(3 marks)****
    
5. **While travelling at 14 m s−1 the object is then subjected to a constant braking effect that brings it to rest in a distance of 24.5 m.**
    
    **What is the time taken for the object to come to rest? **(2 marks)****