## 9.3 Textbook Questions

#### 9.3 Exercise

1. **With reference to Newton’s First Law of Motion, explain why a smartphone sliding across a table does not move at a constant speed.**
    The friction from the table onto the phone reduces its velocity
2. **When you are standing on a bus, train or tram that stops suddenly, you lurch forwards. Explain why this happens in terms of Newton’s First Law.**
    The force applied to the bus to make it stop is not applied to you
3. **If the bicycle that you are riding runs into an obstacle such as a large rock, you may be flung forwards over the handlebars. Explain in terms of Newton’s First Law why this happens.**
    The force applied to the bike by the rock to make it stop is not applied to you
4. **A removalist is pushing some heavy boxes across the floor of their van at a constant speed. They exert a force of 125 N on the boxes. Calculate the magnitude of the friction force acting on the boxes during this motion.**
    125 -  x = 0
    x = 125
    Friction force is approximately 125 N
5. **A Physics student who is also in the circus is practicing juggling balls whilst travelling in a train. They misjudge a throw and one of the balls goes out an open window. It quickly disappears beside the track behind the train while the other balls remain inside. Use your knowledge of Newton’s First Law to explain why the horizontal motion of the ball changed once it exited the train.**
    The air resistance encountered by the ball is not counteracted by the train as the ball has seperated from it

#### **9.3 Exam questions**

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4381)Question 1 (2 marks)**

**A ball that is rolling along a perfectly horizontal and very smooth surface on Earth will eventually slow down to a stop.**

**Identify the forces causing this and use Newton’s First Law to explain why this is the case.**
1. Friction
2. Air resistance 
3. gravity
**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4382)Question 2 (2 marks)**

**A high-altitude skydiver has reached terminal velocity and is falling at a constant velocity towards Earth. The force due to gravity acting on them at this point in their fall is 600 N.**

**State the magnitude and direction of the total air resistance force acting on them.**
F air resistance = 600 N "up"
**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4383)Question 3 (2 marks)**

**A space probe travelling in deep space moves at a constant velocity without using any rockets or other propulsion. Yet an aircraft on Earth cruising at constant speed must keep its engines producing thrust so that it does not slow down.**

**Explain how both situations are consistent with Newton’s First Law.**
Space contains no air to encounter air resistance so spacecraft only need to use engines to change velocity while in earth air resistance is constantly slowing down therefor constant thrust must be applied
**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4384)Question 4 (2 marks)**

**A boat is pulling a raft along a river at constant speed. The retarding forces on the boat and raft are 600 N and 300 N respectively.**

**Calculate the driving force on the boat. Explain your reasoning.**
600 + 300 = 900 N
The force acting on the raft ends up acting on the boat as they are connected by the rope and the boat travels at constant speed so the forces must be equal
**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4385)Question 5 (3 marks)**

**A car is travelling quickly along the highway when it runs into an obstacle and stops abruptly. One of the passengers is not wearing a seat belt. Describing the incident to a friend later, he says that he was thrown forward by the collision. The friend questions how the collision could produce a forward force on the passenger.**

**Using Newton’s First Law, explain what happened to the passenger in the collision.**

The external force applied to the car in the collision was not transfered to the passanger without a seatbelt as it  