**Prompt:**
*"Even though birds are utterly free they choose to flock. They prefer to be with their kind. There's a sense of connection, I guess an invisible thread"*
>Discuss how the novel shows the importance of family connections in including sense of the past, dealing with the present and credibly hopes for the future
>discuss with references to nine days and your own experience

In the novel "Nine Days" by Toni Jordan there are many objects that link the narratives of different time periods throughout the lives of the Westaway's. Through the amethyst pendent, the shilling and even the house on Rowena Parade are strings that tie the Westaway's together throughout the generations these objects also reflect onto reality where family objects can bring people together despite how different they could end up.

The amethyst pendent is a repeatedly recurring motif in the text where we are first introduced to in Charlotte's chapter as "My mother's pendent" the pendent was initially stolen by Francis before he attempted to gift the pendent to Annabel in a "show of love" after Kip then buys the pendent off of Francis it then get passed down through each generation of the Westaway's. The pendent provides a sense of choice to Charlotte as she decides what to do with her baby which displays how the pendent, which is her connection to the previous generations of Westaway's helps her to deal with the present. The pendent has many symbols in the novel, at first it is a symbolism of love by Francis which shows hope for a happier future, furthermore the future. The idea of passing down heirlooms to bring connection can be seen in family photos, like in the novel photos can be seen as important by many, photos can unite family's to bring people together in the present to create memories for the future. Toni emphasizes that the idea of passing down heirlooms in more than simply passing objects to the younger generation but passing down the experience to deal with present and future.

Francis has the most unique transformation of character from when he was young being considered the "golden child", the first of the Westaway's to achieve success to towards the end of the book simply being known as "Uncle Frank". Despite how Francis having his story about the pendent exposed and being made a fool of at the ball he still maintains a close connection with kip even into the future. As Francis occupies the old family home on Rowena Parade he maintains a sense of the past with the stories of how he would be "surrounded by women". Many times stories are passed down from families containing a glue holding people together whether that be an object like a place to call home or something as simple as a really nice chocolate pudding recipe people will find a way to be with others

Jean in the novel displays a connection with the past with her late husband Tom in her dealings with the present day Kip. She dreams that "Kip is Tom come back to life" this close connection with the dead Tom influences how she dealt with her present day difficulties in Rowena parade. Tom Westaway was a close connection with Jean that she would plan he future based on Tom's good fortune by putting money down for the house in Rowena Parade. Even after Tom's passing Jean still has a bond with him when the Hustings learn of Jacks death Jean sympathizes with them showing how she is still connected in the past by Kip to Tom. This connection I have felt between family members as despite if I am away from them for a long time we can still feel connected through the times we do meet.

In summary the intent of Toni Jordan was to display how family heirlooms are more than just object but lived experiences and how those connections from the past can shape not only our actions in the present but the future. Alongside this the novel conveys that the invisible binds that heirlooms create bringing families together will be passed through generation and that these familial bonds are forever.