---
tags:
  - english
---
## Essay

I used to go to another school, it was a Christian school with year four to year twelve. The new scrubs going into year four included me, fresh new into an unknown school with nobody from my previous school to talk with.  So naturally I ended up talking with the person I sat down next to. A small kid called Evan, he ended up becoming my best reliable friend throughout my three years journey at that school. In a school that was very cantered around football and sports me and Evan enjoyed our nerdy conversation between us ranging from talking about planes to our favourite movies and card games, we were two inseparable friends with similar interests. As time carried on we started hanging out with each other outside of school times, riding bikes was a fun activity we would partake in together he was my best friend.

Once the end of year six came around I faced the fact that we were both leaving the school; me to Camberwell Grammar and Evan to St Kevins. We both promised that we would still be friends outside of our separate schools, as if nothing had happened but I would be telling this story if it had gone that way. Inevitably the slow tide of increasing responsibilities of high school and the influx of new friendship opportunities at a school that I felt more at home in meant we talked less and less. We still held out strong on our bike rides they were like tradition, a habit that we couldn't break, we would still go out riding in our nearby area every weekend. Each time we biked it was a chance to unwind and casually talk about how high school had being coming along and how different our schools were but as time went on these conversations became quieter and quieter. The lack of talking outside of these bike rides meant that most the stories we told each other we had already told to our new friends and had lost that enthusiastic retelling the first time you talk about it has. One day we agreed that we should move on to new horizons.

I felt like it was my fault, had I not been a good enough friend? Had I not tried enough to keep in contact? These thoughts stuck with me for a while, when I talked to some of my new friends about it they shared similar stories about coming to a new school with no friends and how it is ok to drift apart from old friends. Eventually I ran into my old friend Evan at the movies as we were both going to a new movie we caught up on what was happening in our separate lives and discussed how we talked less and less. After the movie finished we were saying our goodbyes to each other we both agreed how it was ok to not be in contact we also learned it was ok to move on and make new friends and to not be held down by things in the past. After this meeting when I look back on the memories I made it gives me happiness knowing how good friends we were.