#### 4.2 Exercise

1. Name the isotope that has an atomic number of 11 and contains 12 neutrons.
    Sodium - 23
2. How many protons and neutrons are there in one atom of each of the following isotopes?
    
    1. Hydrogen-2, also known as deuterium
        1p, 95n
    2. Americium-241
        95p, 146n
    3. Europium-164
        63p, 101n
3. What force acts between a proton and a neutron and under what conditions does it act?
    strong nuclear force which binds the nucleus together when things are atomically close
4. The half-life of caesium-134 is 2.06 years. What fraction of caesium is left after 10.3 years?
    
5. What is meant when an isotope is described to be stable?
    it has a balanced with the amount of neutrons and not subject to radioactive decay
6. If the strong nuclear force acts between all nucleons and is much stronger than the electromagnetic force at the distance of two neighbouring nucleons in a nucleus, explain how a nucleus might be unstable.
    
7. 100 grams of a radioactive isotope is delivered to a hospital. Three hours later there is only 6.25 grams left. What is the half-life of the isotope?
    
8. Sketch a graph of the decay of the isotope in question **7**.
    
9. Why are half-lives used for radioactive isotopes rather than just stating how long they take to decay?
    because the radioisotope decays half of itself within a half life it will take forever to fully decay
10. The activity (decays per second) of a radioactive isotope halves with each half-life. Explain why that would be the case.
    
11. You need 20 grams of a radioactive isotope with a half-life of 3 hours. How much would you need to buy if it takes 24 hours to deliver it?
    

#### 4.2 Exam questions

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4070)Question 1 (1 mark)**

MC What is the atomic number (_Z_) of an element?

1. ==The number of neutrons in the nucleus==
    
2. The number of nucleons in the nucleus
    
3. The number of protons in the nucleus
    
4. The total number of nucleons and electrons in the atom
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4071)Question 2 (1 mark)**

MC Which of the following best describes all the isotopes of an element?

1. Same number of protons; different number of neutrons
    
2. Same number of neutrons; different number of protons
    
3. Same number of nucleons; different number of protons
    
4. Same number of nucleons; different number of neutrons
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4072)Question 3 (1 mark)**

MC A radioactive element has a half-life of 6.0 days. A sample of this material initially contains 12400 nuclei.

How many radioactive nuclei are remaining after 12 days?

1. 6200
    
2. ==3100==
    
3. 1550
    
4. 775
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4073)Question 4 (3 marks)**

A radioactive source has a half-life of 50 years. It currently contains 10 000 of the unstable nuclei.

How many unstable nuclei were there in the source 200 years ago? Show your reasoning.
$$10000*2^4$$

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4074)Question 5 (3 marks)**

The initial activity of a radioactive source is 8000 decays per second. After 1 day it has decreased to 1000 decays per second.

What is the half-life of this source (in hours)? Show your reasoning.