#### 4.3 Exercise

1. Write the nuclear equation for the _α_ decay of radon-222.
    $$\frac{222}{86}Rn \rightarrow \frac{218}{84}Po \space + \space \frac{4}{2}\alpha  \space + \space Energy$$
2. Write the nuclear equation for the _β_ decay of lead-214.
	$$\frac{214}{82}Pb \rightarrow \frac{214}{83}Bi \space + \space \frac{0}{-1}\beta \space + \space antinutri\space + \space Energy$$
    
3. 1. A particle is missing from the right-hand side of a nuclear equation. The atomic numbers on the left-hand side of a nuclear equation **add to 20**. The sum of the atomic numbers on the right-hand side of the equation **add to 18**. What is the atomic number of the missing particle?
        the atomic number of the missing is 2
    2. The mass numbers of the equation in part a add to 50 on the left-hand side. The sum of the mass numbers on the right-hand side of the equation add to 46. What is the mass number of the missing particle?
        4
    3. What is the missing particle?
    $$\frac{4}{2}\alpha$$
4. Identify two particles or emissions in nuclear equations that have a mass number and atomic number of zero.
    
5. Energy is released in nuclear decays other than in the form of _γ_ rays. What form does this energy take?
    *It is also taken as light energy as the gamma wave is a photon on the light spectrum*
6. The atomic number counts the number of protons in the nucleus of an atom. In nuclear equations some particles have atomic numbers but no protons. Given an example and explain what it means.
    

#### 4.3 Exam questions

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4075)Question 1 (1 mark)**

MC The nucleus U-236 alpha decays into the nucleus  (b/a)X



What are the numbers _a_ and _b_?

1. _a_ = 94, _b_ = 240
    
2. ==_a_ = 90, _b_ = 232==
    
3. _a_ = 91, _b_ = 236
    
4. _a_ = 93, _b_ = 238
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4076)Question 2 (1 mark)**

MC The radioactive isotope Thorium 90 undergoes three consecutive _α_ particle decays before becoming an isotope of the element _X_. 

What is the mass number of this isotope of element _X_?

1. ==218==
    
2. 221
    
3. 224
    
4. 227
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4077)Question 3 (4 marks)**

One member of a radioactive decay series has _A_ = 231.

Could an isotope with _A_ = 207 also be a member of this decay series? Explain your reasoning.

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4078)Question 4 (3 marks)**

Consider part of a decay series that begins with the isotope. This nucleus undergoes a total of three alpha decays and two beta decays. Calculate the atomic number of the final isotope. Show your reasoning.
$$Atomic \space no. = Original \space atomic \space no. \space - 2*3$$

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4079)Question 5 (4 marks)**

Write down the complete decay equation for the alpha decay of Radium-226 and identify the nucleus produced, using the periodic table. 
$$\frac{226}{88}Ra\rightarrow \space \frac{222}{87}Fr \space + \space \frac{4}{2}\alpha \space + \space Energy$$