`## 4.4 Notes
- ion is an atom with a positive or negetive charge
- ions created by removal of electron from nuetral
- negetive ion gained by increasing electrons via beta -

### Effects on human body
- Chemical changes resulting from ions free radicals living in cells
- ions may react causing damage to DNA
- cells dividing can be impacted
- cancer :P
- Abbsorbed dose:
$$Absorbed \space dose = \space \frac{Energy \space absorbed}{Mass}$$
$$ Equivalent \space Dose\space = \space (Absorbed  \space Dose \times Quality Factor)$$
$$ Effective \space Dose\space = \space (Equivalent \space Dose \times Weight Factor)$$









#### absorbed dose?
    
7. **It is more dangerous for pregnant women to be exposed to high radiation levels than for other people. Why?**
    Because the exposure could impact the developing baby
8. **Australians receive on average 2 mSv of radiation each year. Assuming this radiation is all _β_ particles with energy of 1 MeV, calculate how many _β_ particles pass in or out of your body every second if your mass is 60 kg.**
    
9. **Ionising radiation can cause cancer, yet it can also cure cancer. Explain this contradictory statement.**
    

#### **4.4 Exam questions**

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4080)Question 1 (1 mark)**

**MC A 60-kilogram person absorbs 0.009 J of ionising radiation in the form of _α_ particles.**

**What equivalent dose of radiation do they receive? (Take the quality factor to be 20.)**

1. **15 mGy**
    
2. **0.15 mGy**
    
3. **3 mSv**
    
4. **9 mSv**
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4081)Question 2 (2 marks)**

**An 85-kilogram person absorbs 16 mJ of ionising radiation in the form of _α_ particles. Their equivalent dose is 2.45 mSv.**

**Determine the quality factor of the radiation.**

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4082)Question 3 (1 mark)**

**MC Which of the following radioisotopes is suitable for a 45-minute diagnosis appointment?**

1. **Nitrogen-16 (half-life: 7.13 seconds)**
    
2. **Carbon-11 (half-life: 20.3 minutes)**
    
3. **Fermium-252 (half-life: 72 hours)**
    
4. **Gold-196 (half-life: 148 hours)**
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4083)Question 4 (2 marks)**

**A hospital radiographer calculates the equivalent dose of radiation absorbed by a patient. During a scan of the patient’s brain, the absorbed dose is measured as 1.5 mGy. The mass of the brain is 1.4 kg.**

**Calculate the energy absorbed by the brain during the scan.**

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4084)Question 5 (4 marks)**

**In a nuclear plant a worker’s hand comes into contact with an object that emits _α_ particles. The worker’s hand has a mass of 0.50 kg and absorbs 6 _μ_J of energy.**

**Calculate:**

1. **the absorbed dose received by the worker’s hand (2 marks)**
    `
2. **the equivalent dose received by the worker’s hand if the quality factor is 20. (2 marks)**