---
tags:
  - physics
---
- to convert AC to DC divide by sqrt2
#### 7.2 Exercise

1. **What is meant when it is said that a house is supplied with electricity at 230 *V*RMS, 50 Hz?**
    It means that there is 50 hz of alternating current with a peak of +325 and -325 volts
2. **Why is an overload in a household circuit potentially dangerous?**
    Because wires within the house could melt causing a fire and overloading can damage 
3. **What coloured insulation is used for the active, neutral and earth wires in modern houses?**
    Active: Brown (Red)
    Neutral: Blue (Black)
    Ground: Green/yellow stripe (green)
4. **Sketch a power point and plug. Label the active, neutral and earth in each case.**
    
5. **Why do many appliances need to be connected to both the neutral and earth wires?**
    Because if they have a metal shell becomes live the earth switch gives an easier path to the ground
6. **When is the earth wire used in household lighting circuits?**
    In metallic coated appliances that risk becoming live by faulty wiring
7. **What is the cost of running a 300-W refrigerator for a year (365 days) if the refrigerator operates on average for 12 hours a day, and electricity costs 31.28 cents per kW h?**
    no. of kWh x Price/kWh
    8760 x 0.3128/
    = $411.02
8. **The following table gives the power consumption of various products when they are on standby.**

    1. Calculate the energy used by each product if it is left on standby for one year.
	        *Laptop* - 127
    2. Calculate the mass of greenhouse gases produced by these products if they are left on standby for one year, assuming that 1 kW h of energy produces greenhouse gases that are equivalent to 1.444 kilograms of CO2.
        

#### 7.2 Exam questions

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4321)Question 1 (1 mark)**

MC An appliance is rated at 3600 W at 230 VRMS. (325V) 3600/325 = I R = V/I

Which of the following best gives the value of its resistance?

1. 0.060 Ω
    
2. 15 Ω
    
3. 16 Ω
    
4. ==32 Ω==
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4322)Question 2 (2 marks)**

The mains power supply is rated at 240 VRMS at 50 Hz.
What is the period (time for one cycle) of the mains voltage? Show your reasoning.

50hz means sin wave oselates every (1/50) seconds meaning that the period is 0.02 seconds

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4323)Question 3 (2 marks)**

In a correctly wired house, it should be safe to touch the neutral wire. (Do not try this at home!)
Explain how the household wiring brings this about.

the nuetral wire is in theory safe because 

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4324)Question 4 (2 marks)**

An Australian appliance is rated at 1200 W at 240 VRMS. It is taken to the USA and connected to the local supply, which is 120 VRMS.

Calculate at what power the appliance will now operate. Show your reasoning. (Assume that the resistance is constant.)

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4325)Question 5 (2 marks)**

An electric heater is rated at 2000 W. It is operated for six hours per day from Monday to Friday inclusive.

Calculate the total energy consumption in units of kW h. Show your reasoning.