---
tags:
  - physics
---
#### 7.3 Exercise

1. What is the difference between an electric shock and electrocution?
    Electrocution is dead by an electric shock while electric shock
2. Describe factors that reduce the resistance of human skin.
	If the skin is wet,
3. Why is the amount of current flowing through the body important in determining the severity of an electric shock?
    Because higher current would deliver more charge through a body
4. What is fibrillation?
    irregular and inconsistent beating of the heart
5. What would happen if you touched a shock victim who was still conducting an electrical current?
    you two would get shocked you dumbass
6. How is the severity of a shock related to the time of exposure?
    the amount of energy passed through the heart is also a factor of time
7. What is ‘double insulation’?
    there is two layers of insulating material between the live wires and the outer casing
8. A worker touched an overhead power line and was electrocuted. A newspaper reported the incident as follows:
    
    ‘He touched the cable and 50 000 V of electricity surged through his body.’
    
    Evaluate this statement.
    **oh he fucking dead**

#### 7.3 Exam questions

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4326)Question 1 (1 mark)**

MC An appliance is said to have ‘double insulation’.

What is meant by this statement?

1. There is twice the usual thickness of insulation around the casing.
    
2. ==There are two layers of insulation between the live wire and external metal parts.==
    
3. There are two earth wires connected to any external metal parts.
    
4. There is double thickness of insulation of the power leads.
    

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4327)Question 2 (3 marks)**

Explain why the bathroom is a more dangerous place than the lounge room for electric shocks.
	because the wet and general humidity of the air makes overall body resistance lower

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4328)Question 3 (3 marks)**

State which of the two quantities, voltage or current, is more important in causing electric shock. Explain your answer. Discuss both voltage and current.
Current is more important as the 

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4329)Question 4 (3 marks)**

Explain when and how the earth wire functions to protect humans from electric shock.
Earth wire provides low current route to earth if a metal casing of a appliance becomes live

**[](https://content2.learnon.com.au/embedded-searchlight?&isbn=9781119887843&assetid=tlvd-4330)Question 5 (3 marks)**

Explain when and how a residual current device functions to protect humans from electric shock.
no